Question 2  Demonstrate the steps involved in the process of installation and configuration of Hardhat Development
Environment ?
                     Ans:- Sider Fusion
Sure! Hardhat is a popular development environment for Ethereum smart contracts. Below are the steps involved in the installation and configuration of the 
Hardhat development environment:

Step 1: Install Node.js
Download Node.js: If you haven't installed Node.js yet, download it from the official Node.js website. Be sure to choose the LTS (Long Term Support) version.
Install Node.js: Follow the installation instructions specific to your operating system.
Step 2: Set Up a New Project Directory
Create a New Directory: Open your terminal or command prompt and create a new directory for your Hardhat project:
mkdir my-hardhat-project  
cd my-hardhat-project  
Step 3: Initialize a New npm Project
Initialize npm: Inside your project directory, run the following command to create a package.json file:
npm init -y  
This command will automatically create a package.json file with default settings.
Step 4: Install Hardhat
Install Hardhat: Use npm to install Hardhat as a development dependency:
npm install --save-dev hardhat  
Step 5: Create a Hardhat Project
Run Hardhat: After installation, you can initialize a new Hardhat project:
npx hardhat  
Select a Template: You'll be prompted to choose whether to create a basic sample project, an advanced project, or to create a minimal project.
 Choose "Create a sample project".
Follow the Prompts: Hardhat will then prompt you to install additional dependencies and provide titles for your project. Answer these prompts as necessary.
Step 6: Explore the Project Structure
After the setup completes, you will see that Hardhat has created a project structure with several important files and directories:

contracts/: This directory contains your smart contracts.
scripts/: You can write scripts to deploy contracts here.
test/: This directory is for your test files.
hardhat.config.js: This is the main configuration file for Hardhat.
Step 7: Configure Hardhat
Open hardhat.config.js: You can modify the configuration based on your project needs. For example, you can configure networks, 
compilers (Solidity version), and plugins.

Here’s an example of what part of hardhat.config.js might look like:

require('@nomiclabs/hardhat-waffle');  

module.exports = {  
  solidity: "0.8.4",  
  networks: {  
    hardhat: {  
      chainId: 1337  
    },  
    rinkeby: {  
      url: 'https://rinkeby.infura.io/v3/YOUR_INFURA_PROJECT_ID',  
      accounts: ['0xYOUR_PRIVATE_KEY']  
    }  
  }  
};  
Step 8: Compile Smart Contracts
Compile Contracts: You can compile your smart contracts by running the following command:
npx hardhat compile  
Step 9: Run Hardhat Network
Start Development Network: You can start Hardhat’s local Ethereum network (for testing) with:
npx hardhat node  
Step 10: Deploy Contracts (Optional)
Write a Deployment Script: You can create a script in the scripts/ folder to deploy your contracts.
Run the Script: Execute your deployment script with:
npx hardhat run scripts/sample-script.js --network hardhat  
Step 11: Testing Your Smart Contracts
Write Tests: You can write tests in the test/ folder using Mocha/Chai.
Run Tests: To run your tests, use:
npx hardhat test  
Summary
You have successfully installed and configured your Hardhat development environment! You can now build, test, and deploy Ethereum 
smart contracts using Hardhat. For more advanced features, consider exploring the official Hardhat documentation.